---
layout: post
title: [SIGCOMM] Robotron, Network Management system for Facebook
---

# Robotron, Network Management system for Facebook
(The paper is really well written, so I will be quoting for the most part.)
## Main challenges
- Distributed Configurations: there are a lot of configs that needs to be changed in different systems. `For instance, migrating a circuit between routers can involve configuration changes in IP addressing, BGP sessions, interfaces, as well as “drain” and “undrain” procedures to avoid the interruption of production traffic.`
- Multiple domains: Facebook needs to manage a network of networks
- Versioning: need to manage different versions of network running at the same time.
- Dependency: `Adding a new router into the AS means changing the configs on all other routers. Such dependencies are laborious for network engineers to handle.`
- Vendor differences: different vendoes often have different API

## Solutions
- **Configuration-as-code**
- **Validation**
-- `For example, point-to-point IP addresses of a circuit are rejected if they belong to different subnets.`
-- `We include human verification, in some cases, as the last line of defense. For instance, before committing a new config to a device, the user is presented with a diff between the new and existing config to verify all changes.`
-- `After committing, we also employ continuous monitoring to closely track the actual network state.`
- **Extensibility**
-- `We strive for generic system design and implementation, while allowing network engineers to extend functionality with templates, tool configurations, and code changes`

## The Network And Use Cases    

[Missing picture]
### Point-of-Presence
POP is the most outer later of Facbeook service, people will make request to Facebook POP, and most requests will be proxied from POP to data centers. 

>  The first tier is Peering Routers (PRs), which connect to Internet Service Providers (ISPs) via peering and transit links and to our backbone via Backbone Routers (BBs). From the PRs, connectivity to the POP servers is provided by a switching fabric that consists aggregation switches (PSWs) and top-of-rack switches (TORs). Applications running on POP servers include load balancers and caches. These POPs allow content to be stored closer to the end user, thereby reducing latency. Any request unable to be served by POP servers traverses our backbone network to one of the DCs.

### Data Center

> Each DC has several clusters, whose external connectivity is provided by data center routers

> These clusters have highly standardized topologies with tightly-coupled device configs. The configs for network devices in DCs change infrequently compared to those in the POPs or in the backbone

## Backbone
> The backbone network provides transport among POPs and DCs via optical transport links. Each backbone location consists of several BBs. From a protocol perspective, both MPLS and BGP are used. We use PRs and DRs as edge nodes to set up label-switched paths via BBs. MPLS traffic engineering (MPLS-TE) tunnels are deployed for the purposes of traffic management. In addition, internal BGP (iBGP) sessions are used between PRs and DRs to exchange routing information.

#  ROBOTRON OVERVIEW
- FBNet: `FBNet is the central repository for information, implemented as an object store, where each network component is modeled as an object. Object data and associations are represented by attributes. For example, a point-to-point circuit is associated with two
interfaces. The circuit and interfaces are all objects connected via attributes of the circuit object. FBNet serves as the single source of truth for component state, used in the life cycle stages described below.`
- Network Design: `For example, when designing a cluster, an engineer must provide high-level topology information, e.g., number of racks per cluster, number of uplinks per top-of-rack switch, etc.`
- Config Generation: ` After FBNet objects are populated, the config generation stage builds vendor-specific device configs based on object states.`
- Deployment
- Monitoring
#  FBNET: MODELING THE NETWORK
> Our design goals are two-fold. First, the data models should be simple and comprehensive in order to capture common network properties across diverse device vendors, hardware platforms, circuit providers, etc. Second, the data models should be easy to extend and maintain over time based on management software needs.

## Data Model
- Object, Value, and Relationship
-- A network in FBNet has physical (e.g., network devices, linecards, physical interfaces, circuits) and logical (e.g., BGP sessions, IP addresses) components. They have attributes to store component data and associations between components. FBNet models these components, data attributes, and association attributes respectively as typed objects, value fields, and relationship fields. Every object is instantiated based on a data model that defines the type of the object and its available fields. Value fields contain object data whereas relationship fields contain typed references to other objects.
[ Fig 4 and explanations ]
[ Fig 5 and explanations ]

## Desired versus Derived
> Desired models capture the desired network state, which is maintained by network engineers with a set of specialized tools provided by Robotron. To make changes, engineers modify the data to describe the updated network design instead of directly updating each device config. The data is used to drive the generation of device configs. As a result, the integrity and accuracy of Desired model data is paramount to the correctness of the generated configs.

> Derived models reflect the current operational network state. In contrast to Desired models, data in Derived models is populated based on real-time collection from network devices (Section 5.4). For example, a circuit object is created if the Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP) data from two devices shows that the physical interfaces connected to both ends are neighbors to each other. One obvious use case of having the Desired and Derived data is anomaly detection. Differences between data in both models could imply expected or unexpected deviation from planned network design due to reasons such as unapplied config changes, or unplanned events such as hardware failures, fiber cuts, or misconfigurations

## API
- Read API asks you to specify the fields you want, and the query that is used to filter objects
- Write API allows modification of multiple objects

## Architecture and Implementation
- Storage Layer: MySQL + Django
- Service Layer: Thrift + Django (How did the network get bootstraped in the first place to communicate with the service layer?!)
- Scalability and Availability: MySQL globally replicated for read, write has to go to the master region. When slave for too long, or failing health checks, Robotron disable the slave and redirect the read traffic to some other region/instance.

## Management Life Cycle
###  Network Design
### POPs and DCs
> POPs and DCs have standard fat-tree architectures that change rarely after the initial turn-up. Such a uniform architecture lends itself to be captured with *topology templates*. A topology template defines components that compose a topology: network devices and groups of links (link group) that connect them.

> Figure 7 shows the corresponding topology template. It defines (1) the devices’ hardware profiles (e.g., vendor, linecards, interfaces reserved for each neighboring device), (2) the number of devices of each type, e.g., two PRs each with hardware profile Router_Vendor1, (3) how they are connected, e.g., each (PR, PSW) pair is connected by a link bundle with 2 circuits, and (4) IP addressing scheme.

### Backbone
Backbone changes more frequently than POPs and DCs because load changes from POP to DCs, therefore there are a lot of incremental changes network engineers needs to do.

> A key challenge of supporting incremental changes is to resolve object dependency. For example, adding and removing a backbone router requires updating the iBGP mesh by modifying BGP session objects related to all other routers on the edge of the backbone; migrating a circuit from one router to another requires deleting or re-associating existing interface, prefix, and BGP session on one router and creating new ones on the other.

Again the challenge is resolved using the data model already defined in FBNet

### Design Validation

There are failsafes in Robotron to make sure people don't mess up the network.

> First, it embeds various rules to automatically validate objects when translating template and tool inputs to FBNet objects. These rules check object value and relationship fields to ensure data integrity (e.g., a circuit must be associated to two physical interfaces), and avoid duplicate objects. Second, Robotron displays the resulting design changes and requires users to visually review and confirm before committing the change to FBNet.  Third, it requires employee ID and ticket ID to track design change history. Finally, Robotron logs all design changes for ease of debugging and error tracking.

## Config Generation

> Robotron divides a device configuration into two parts: dynamic, vendor-agnostic data such as names and IP addresses, and static, vendorspecific templates with special syntax and keywords.  The former is derived from FBNet objects and stored as a Thrift [1] object per device according to a pre-defined schema while the latter is stored as flat files.

Later, all the data is translated from the thrift objects into vendor specific configs.

## Deployment
- Initial Provisioning: simple reset then copy
- Incremental update
-- Dryrun mode: new conifigs are compared against current, generates a diff, which catches most of the errors
-- Atomic mode: when you deploy updates that requires deploying new configs to multiple devices, Robotron supports uatomic update. `During an atomic update, if any of the devices experiences errors or cannot finish applying the config within a given time window, Robotron rollbacks the entire transaction.`
-- Phased mode: Some changes that can be phased will be done in phase (e.g. Firewall changes).
-- Human Confirmation

## Monitoring
- Passive Monitoring
